hi I'm Nick Pearson two-time Olympian
and US beats getting program coordinator
they need to do a norton sharpening
clinic with our official sponsor Norton
who provides you a space getting with
our speed skating sharpening kits and it
contains three birthstones of three
different abrasiveness and sizes three
different sharpening stones two of them
with different abrasiveness on each of
each side of them and then the Arkansas
marble stone and also the norton
sharpening stone solution and now I'm
going to show you how to sharpen speed
skates first you need a speed skating
jig like this one here and you need to
mount your state's in the jig so that
they are level the goal of sharpening
speed skates as you see on the board
here is to first with your sharpening
stones like these here to get the burr
on your skate similar to this here once
you have a bird and have it smooth
you'll go to with the do burn stone
similar to this one here and push that
bird fold it over some under this
picture here which we call an over verb
if the overbear is too big you'll want
to go back to a softer or a smoother
stone some of this one here and push
that burr back over so once again you
can take a bare stone and hopefully cut
that burr off and your optimal end is
perfectly square skate like this picture
here because my skates aren't that bad
right now
I'm gonna start with this orange
abrasive here go to the gray abrasive on
this side of the stone and then finish
off with a marble to start off I'm going
to take the orange abrasive and put some
Norton stone solution on here to lube up
the stone put an even coat all over your
stone and begin sharpening
as you can see I'm starting them all the
way to one side and going over the other
without pushing at all just using the
weight of the stone let it do the work
after a few strokes are going to want to
turn your skins around to also ensure
that you're getting even pressure all
the way across your skates and not
pushing more on one spot than another
you're doing that for a while you want
to feel if you have a bird evenly all
the way up and down besides your blades
if not you should continue doing that if
you already do that's time to move on to
the next stone next I'm using this gray
stone here make sure the stone is clean
before starting once again using the
sharpening solution evenly across the
whole stone and again starting from the
back going all the way to the front and
not pushing it all the way to the stone
do the work and once again turn it
around to ensure even a smaller
throughout the skate
after doing that for a while you want to
look at your surface of your skate and
make sure you don't have big lines in
the flat of the skate I'm going to
finish off with a Norton Arkansas
marbles marble stone it's very similar
to the one you would get in your kit
some people don't use any sharpening
solution with their marble stones I do
not but you're more than welcome to some
people also use water with their marble
stones you want to make sure before you
start with your marble stone your blade
once again or wipe down and then begin
with your marble stone exact same thing
all the way front to back not pushing it
all the way to the stone do the work
you'll see as you're sharpening that the
surface will be getting shinier and
shinier and almost like a mirror and
again we're going to turn them around
and make sure we get gusher throughout
the blades
after you're done at the marble stone
you're gonna want to once again make
sure that you still have an even Burke
all the way throughout your skate and
you want to use your fingernails and
check all the way up and down your blade
to make sure you have an even burr all
the way through if you can hear that
it's my fingernails running over that
birth though they have evenly all the
way down the skate you want to check all
four edges to make sure that burrs even
everywhere after you're done using your
stones and you have that even bird that
nice polished polished finish on your
skate you want to take your skates out
of your jig once again wipe them down
with your rag to ensure they're clean
and now we're going to move on to our D
burning so currently your skate kind of
looks like this right here
it has a nice even burn all the way
through on both sides your skate what we
want to do is take the stone and
hopefully get to this maybe get this and
take a rag take a stone just like this
one just a little bit used right now my
favorites done take it and run it up and
down your skate pushing firmly but
evenly if you want to notice this stone
is completely flat and on the skate you
don't want this stone tilted this way
you don't want to tilt it this way just
want to be completely flat with even
pressure back and forth to cut or fold
that bar over hopefully cut that burr
off after doing that for a while you'll
go with your fingernail again to see if
there's any burr left if the bird is
gone you also want to go the opposite
way from the flat of your skate feeling
this way to see if you do have what we
call the over burr which is what's on
the board here a picture of the over
burr I do not have an over bird which is
a good thing so I'll go to the other
side and do the exact same thing
once again checking see if there's a
bird and an over burr some skaters
choose to skate with a very small over
burr some choose to skate with no over
at all
escape optimally without girl over burr
would look like this right here in the
field for sharpness what I do is take my
thumb and run down your blade like this
to feel how much it's grouping your
thumb some people use a fingernail and
pull and how much it's gripping their
fingernail opposed if it wasn't sharp at
all we're just slide off here it'll grip
and you'll see parts of your fingernail
get left behind that's showing that it's
nice and sharp the one do the same thing
on the other skate now what to do if you
have an over birth at you don't want
you're gonna put your skates back in
your jig make sure with your Levellers
they're level once again just like you
did when you first put them in the jig
and start off with the smooth is smooth
still impossible which hopefully will
just be the Arkansas marbles and I'm
using and once again go over your skates
and push that over brother you don't
want either off or back over to get
another bird and once again we're gonna
keep the even pressure all the way
through not pushing it all button is
still in do the work all the way in the
front and all the way to the back
switching around halfway through keep
that nice polished edge nice polished
look and again taking your ski it out
taking your egg taking your birthstone
and deburring once again
and right now my edge is very good it's
not a bird anywhere who's actually zero
over bur which is a great thing so what
my skate should look like on her
microscope is this right here perfectly
square blade
when sharpener nurten stones you want to
start with your most abrasive edges and
go to least abrasive you don't always
have to start with the most abrasive
it's just whatever's needed at the time
with how bad your skates are I started
with the orange on this sharpening went
to the went to this lighter gray and
then finally to the marble some people
might want to start with something a
little bit rougher like one of these two
edges and then gradually working your
way down without skipping any steps and
finishing once again with your marble
stuff and then after getting your nice
burr on your skates you'll choose one of
these Norton deberan stones this is
the one I prefer to hopefully cut that
burr
completely off or to cut it off enough
that a little bit might fold over into
an over burr once again going back to
your marble stone and then cutting the
final bit off again with your bare stop
it's important to sharpen your skates to
maintain a good quality pair of skates
and to get good grip on the ice
also athlete sharpener states a couple
times a week usually prior to big
practices and prior to competitions the
dirty of the nice the bar often you need
to sharpen the cleaner the I still less
often you need to sharpen
sharpening speeds kids can take a
various amount of times more often you
do it the last time I'll take it could
take a near from 10 minutes up to a
half-hour or depend on how bad your
skates are
this norton sharpening kit at us beats
getting dark